docs/MemberSupportAgent_PRD.md, before:

# 📝 Product Requirements Document (PRD)

**Project Name**: Member Support Agent  
**Organization**: Horizon Bay Credit Union  
**Owner**: Benedict Sebastian  
**Last Updated**: June 24, 2025

---

## 1. Problem Definition

Credit union members frequently have questions related to accounts, benefits, policies, and claims. Support representatives are often overwhelmed by repetitive inquiries that could be resolved through existing documentation.  
Manual searching through PDFs and internal guides is inefficient and error-prone. We need a **cost-effective, AI-powered assistant** to answer FAQs, escalate issues, and route information to the right support channels without human intervention.

---

## 2. Core Features

### 🔹 Conversational AI Assistant (Alexa)

- Provides instant, contextual answers from internal documents
- Uses a consistent, professional tone from an identity prompt
- Capable of holding multi-turn conversations with memory

### 🔹 RAG-Based PDF Retrieval

- Automatically loads and chunks PDF documents using `PyMuPDFLoader`
- Stores vector embeddings in Chroma using OpenAI or HuggingFace models
- Retrieves relevant passages using LangChain's Retriever abstraction

### 🔹 Tool-Driven Escalation & Logging

- `log_unknown_question`: alerts the team about gaps in documentation
- `record_user_details`: captures and escalates member inquiries
- `send_notification`: sends real-time Pushover alerts for specific events

### 🔹 React Frontend + FastAPI Backend

- Clean, modern React-based UI (deployed via Vercel or Netlify)
- FastAPI server exposes a `/chat` endpoint for React to query
- Backend processes PDF docs and manages the LangChain RAG pipeline

---

## 3. User Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant React_UI
    participant FastAPI_Server
    participant LangChain_RAG
    participant Tools_Module

    User->>React_UI: Enter message
    React_UI->>FastAPI_Server: POST /chat { message }
    FastAPI_Server->>LangChain_RAG: Query via ConversationalRetrievalChain
    LangChain_RAG->>Tools_Module: (Optional) Tool call if needed
    Tools_Module-->>LangChain_RAG: Execute tool and return result
    LangChain_RAG->>FastAPI_Server: Return final response
    FastAPI_Server->>React_UI: { answer }
    React_UI->>User: Display response
```

---

## 4. Technical Requirements

### 📄 PDF Document Processing

- Loader:
  ```python
  from langchain.document_loaders import PyMuPDFLoader
  ```
- Directory structure:
  - `data/knowledge_base/` contains categorized PDFs
- Used with:
  ```python
  loader = DirectoryLoader("data/knowledge_base", glob="**/*.pdf", loader_cls=PyMuPDFLoader)
  documents = loader.load()
  ```

### 🧠 RAG Setup

| Component   | LangChain Import                              |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| Loader      | `PyMuPDFLoader`                               |
| Chunker     | `CharacterTextSplitter`                       |
| Embeddings  | `OpenAIEmbeddings` or `HuggingFaceEmbeddings` |
| Vectorstore | `Chroma`                                      |
| Retriever   | `vectorstore.as_retriever()`                  |
| Chat Engine | `ConversationalRetrievalChain`                |
| Memory      | `ConversationBufferMemory`                    |

### 🌐 Frontend & Backend

- Frontend:
  - Built in React
  - Calls FastAPI `/chat` endpoint
  - Hosted on Vercel or Netlify
- Backend:
  - FastAPI server hosting LangChain logic
  - Persistent ChromaDB directory in `/data/vector_db/`
  - Hosted on Render, Railway, or Hugging Face Spaces (for demo)

### 🔐 Environment Variables

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-key
PUSHOVER_TOKEN=your-pushover-token
PUSHOVER_USER=your-pushover-user
```

### 📦 Dependency Management

- Uses **UV** for fast Python package management
- Dependencies defined in `pyproject.toml`
- Install with: `uv sync`
- Run with: `uv run python backend/main.py`

---

## 5. Success Criteria

- ✅ Answers ≥80% of common support queries accurately
- ✅ Alerts team for unknown questions or tool calls
- ✅ Retrieves from embedded PDFs with high precision
- ✅ Seamless UX between React frontend and FastAPI backend
- ✅ RAG pipeline initializes on deploy and caches embeddings
- ✅ Successfully deployed to Vercel (UI) and Render/Railway (API)

Commit message:

docs: Update project documentation - Updated MemberSupportAgent_Architecture.md to reflect the successful deployment of the frontend to Vercel and the removal of handle_tool_call from the main workflow. - Updated MemberSupportAgent_Tasks.md to reflect the completion of the deployment and recent changes. - Updated MemberSupportAgent_PRD.md to confirm the frontend is live on Vercel and the backend on Railway, and to reflect changes in tool management and architecture. - Created a comprehensive README.md for the overall project, including project overview, architecture, installation instructions, usage, deployment, contributing, and contact information. - Updated frontend/README.md with project-specific details and deployment status. - Updated MemberSupportAgent_Architecture.md, MemberSupportAgent_Tasks.md, and MemberSupportAgent_PRD.md to reflect recent changes and deployment status.

docs/MemberSupportAgent_PRD.md, after:

# 📝 Product Requirements Document (PRD)

**Project Name**: Member Support Agent  
**Organization**: Horizon Bay Credit Union  
**Owner**: Benedict Sebastian  
**Last Updated**: June 24, 2025

---

## 1. Problem Definition

Credit union members frequently have questions related to accounts, benefits, policies, and claims. Support representatives are often overwhelmed by repetitive inquiries that could be resolved through existing documentation.  
Manual searching through PDFs and internal guides is inefficient and error-prone. We need a **cost-effective, AI-powered assistant** to answer FAQs, escalate issues, and route information to the right support channels without human intervention.

---

## 2. Core Features

### 🔹 Conversational AI Assistant (Alexa)

- Provides instant, contextual answers from internal documents
- Uses a consistent, professional tone from an identity prompt
- Capable of holding multi-turn conversations with memory

### 🔹 RAG-Based PDF Retrieval

- Automatically loads and chunks PDF documents using `PyMuPDFLoader`
- Stores vector embeddings in Chroma using OpenAI or HuggingFace models
- Retrieves relevant passages using LangChain's Retriever abstraction

### 🔹 Tool-Driven Escalation & Logging

- `log_unknown_question`: alerts the team about gaps in documentation
- `record_user_details`: captures and escalates member inquiries
- `send_notification`: sends real-time Pushover alerts for specific events

### 🔹 React Frontend + FastAPI Backend

- Clean, modern React-based UI (deployed via Vercel or Netlify)
- FastAPI server exposes a `/chat` endpoint for React to query
- Backend processes PDF docs and manages the LangChain RAG pipeline

---

## 3. User Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant React_UI
    participant FastAPI_Server
    participant LangChain_RAG
    participant Tools_Module

    User->>React_UI: Enter message
    React_UI->>FastAPI_Server: POST /chat { message }
    FastAPI_Server->>LangChain_RAG: Query via ConversationalRetrievalChain
    LangChain_RAG->>Tools_Module: (Optional) Tool call if needed
    Tools_Module-->>LangChain_RAG: Execute tool and return result
    LangChain_RAG->>FastAPI_Server: Return final response
    FastAPI_Server->>React_UI: { answer }
    React_UI->>User: Display response
```

---

## 4. Technical Requirements

### 📄 PDF Document Processing

- Loader:
  ```python
  from langchain.document_loaders import PyMuPDFLoader
  ```
- Directory structure:
  - `data/knowledge_base/` contains categorized PDFs
- Used with:
  ```python
  loader = DirectoryLoader("data/knowledge_base", glob="**/*.pdf", loader_cls=PyMuPDFLoader)
  documents = loader.load()
  ```

### 🧠 RAG Setup

| Component   | LangChain Import                              |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| Loader      | `PyMuPDFLoader`                               |
| Chunker     | `CharacterTextSplitter`                       |
| Embeddings  | `OpenAIEmbeddings` or `HuggingFaceEmbeddings` |
| Vectorstore | `Chroma`                                      |
| Retriever   | `vectorstore.as_retriever()`                  |
| Chat Engine | `ConversationalRetrievalChain`                |
| Memory      | `ConversationBufferMemory`                    |

### 🌐 Frontend & Backend

- **Frontend**: Successfully deployed to Vercel.
- **Backend**: Successfully deployed to Railway.

### Recent Changes

- **handle_tool_call**: Moved to `test_tools.py` for testing purposes and removed from the main workflow.

### 🔐 Environment Variables

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-key
PUSHOVER_TOKEN=your-pushover-token
PUSHOVER_USER=your-pushover-user
```

### 📦 Dependency Management

- Uses **UV** for fast Python package management
- Dependencies defined in `pyproject.toml`
- Install with: `uv sync`
- Run with: `uv run python backend/main.py`

---

## 5. Success Criteria

- ✅ Answers ≥80% of common support queries accurately
- ✅ Alerts team for unknown questions or tool calls
- ✅ Retrieves from embedded PDFs with high precision
- ✅ Seamless UX between React frontend and FastAPI backend
- ✅ RAG pipeline initializes on deploy and caches embeddings
- ✅ Successfully deployed to Vercel (UI) and Render/Railway (API)
